########## DISTILL OVERVIEWS — lji batch 1/2 (15 labs) ##########

For EACH lab below, write a plain-language research overview (~110-140 words) a first-year undergrad
with no field background could read to decide if they want to email the lab. Say WHAT the lab studies,
HOW (methods/approach), and WHY it matters. Ground it ONLY in that lab's provided text — do NOT invent
specifics, numbers, or techniques not present. If a lab's text is too thin/administrative to describe
its research, set that lab's value to "" (empty) rather than padding — an honest gap beats a fake overview.

Write your answer as a JSON object {"<exact lab name>": "<overview or ''>", ...} to this ABSOLUTE path:
  /home/roman/agent/codebases/labreach/data/agent-overviews/lji-batch0.json

===== LAB: Ferhat Ay =====
Read More Nov 13, 2025 Immune Matters Processing power Meet the LJI scientists changing medical research through artificial intelligence Read More May 5, 2025 Immune Matters Up and coming: A new chapter for women’s health LJI researchers are exploring the effects of hormonal contraceptives on immune responses—and the immune system's role in endometriosis. They're hearing from women along the way. Read More Jun 3, 2024 Research News LJI scientists develop new method to match genes to their molecular ‘switches’ New research may help scientists hunt down solid tumors and better diagnose disease Read More Nov 27, 2023 Research News No IKAROS, no antibodies Researchers map the genome to figure out how a protein called IKAROS controls healthy B cell development Read More Oct 31, 2023 Institute News LJI kicks off partnership with San Diego’s Fleet Science Center Fleet's Sharp Minds lecture series to feature immune system experts Read More View All News Contact Lab Members Use the dropdown menu on the right to contact individual lab members. For interview requests, please contact LJI's Chief Communications Officer by calling 858.752.6640 or via email at communications@lji.org. Please send general inquiries to contact@lji.org.

Our research uses computational and statistical modeling to understand the genetic and epigenetic bases of gene regulation in the context of several important systemic, infectious, and immune-related diseases. We work on bringing systematic and unbiased approaches to help develop and test specific hypotheses in human genetics, molecular biology, and immunology. We are particularly interested in the analysis and modeling of the 3D genome organization from high-throughput chromatin conformation capture data to understand how changes in this 3D structure affect outcomes such as development, differentiation, and disease progression. Our lab develops broadly used computational methods based in statistics, graph theory, data mining, and machine learning for the analysis of high-throughput data sets. We also have ongoing interests in systems-level analysis and reconstruction of regulatory networks, inference of enhancer-promoter contacts, predictive models of gene expression, analysis of single-cell data, as well as integrative, comparative, and high-resolution analysis of chromosomes conformation data such as Hi-C and HiChIP.

===== LAB: Christopher Benedict =====
We have recently discovered a novel connection between the TNF-related apoptosis inducing ligand (TRAIL) cytokine system and CMV. TRAIL is a TNF-family cytokine that can bind to several receptors (TRAIL [...] Read More Benedict T Cell Immunity and CMV HCMV-specific CD8 T cells protect bone marrow transplant patients when used in cellular immunotherapy, and their long-term maintenance is enhanced by CD4 T cells. Importantly, a robust HCMV-specific CD4 T [...] Read More Benedict CMV Targets the Immune Checkpoint Inhibitor BTLA Virulent isolates of CMV encode the ul144 orf, and we identified UL144 as an orthologue of the herpesvirus entry mediator (HVEM), a member of the TNF receptor superfamily. When the [...] Read More MORE RESEARCH PROJECTS From the Lab Apr 2, 2026 Behind the Science , Blog Exposing tumors: Why some cancers are especially hard to treat Some tumors go into "stealth mode." Here's how scientists are fighting back. Read More Feb 10, 2026 Research News Now immune cells can see pancreatic tumors—and attack them San Diego scientists harness viral molecules to jump-start battle against pancreatic cancer Read More Jun 30, 2025 Research News Scientists uncover how a common herpes virus outsmarts the immune system “We found a missing puzzle piece that represents one possible reason why immunization efforts against CMV have been unsuccessful.” Read More Mar 17, 2025 Institute News LJI scientists receive Curebound funding to advance cancer research Curebound grants may lead to new approaches to fight breast cancer, lung tumors and more Read More Jan 18, 2024 Research News How ‘late-rising’ T cells combat a stubborn virus LJI researchers uncover special T cell subset that helps fight cytomegalovirus infection Read More View All News Awards & Honors Arthritis National Research Foundation Eng Tan Scholar, 2006 American Heart Association ‘Promising Young Scientist’ (recipient of Scientist Development Grant), 2001 Smoot Pre-Doctoral Fellow, 1992 Contact Lab Members Use the dropdown menu on the right to contact individual lab members. For interview requests, please contact LJI's Chief Communications Officer by calling 858.752.6640 or via email at communications@lji.org. Please send general inquiries to contact@lji.org.

One of our recent discoveries, a new protein complex called GATE which helps CMV gain entry into certain cells, but also functions inside infected cell to thwart our immune defenses. GATE is the first new entry complex discovered in CMV in >20 years, and could aid in the development of a CMV vaccine. Finally, CMV has an enormous impact on our immune systems, despite not making us sick if our immunity is intact. One of these is to usurp > 10% of our circulating T cells, the highest number known for any virus. We have recently shown that this huge number of T cells recognizing CMV can be repurposed to fight pancreatic cancer, and since 50% or more of us are infected with this beta-herpesvirus its high prevalence is likely amenable to an off-the-shelf anti-cancer therapy.

===== LAB: Hilde Cheroutre =====
One large subgroup of specialized T cells is encompassed by the intraepithelial T cells which are located in the epithelium of the small intestine in humans and mice. intraepithelial T [...] Read More Cheroutre The Contribution of Central and/or Peripheral Tolerance in Celiac Disease Celiac Disease (CD) is an autoimmune-like inflammatory disease induced by aberrant immune responses initiated by MHC class II restricted CD4 T cells and directed towards dietary gluten. CD is the [...] Read More Cheroutre Regulation of mucosal immunity by stromal cells and dendritic cells crosstalk in the gut Genetic regulation by vitamin A is involved in multiple biological processes such as embryonic development, vision, and immunity. To exert this regulatory role, vitamin A is oxidized into its active [...] Read More MORE RESEARCH PROJECTS From the Lab Oct 16, 2025 Institute News San Diego scientists honor the groundbreaking work of LJI Professor Hilde Cheroutre Annual La Jolla Immunology Conference establishes "Cheroutre Frontier Lecture" Read More May 5, 2025 Immune Matters Betrayed by bile ducts? LJI researchers look for clues to treating a mysterious autoimmune disease Autoimmune disease is much more common in women than men. Scientists aren’t sure why. A strange illness that strikes the bile duct network may provide important clues. Read More Aug 18, 2023 Research News New LJI research has major implications for controlling T cell activity How a supposed "nuclear" receptor makes TCR signaling possible Read More View All News Awards & Honors NIH Director’s Pioneer Award Recipient 2009 UCSD Warren Foundation Celiac Disease Grant Cancer Research Coordinating Committee Fellowship from the State of California University of California, Los Angeles Tumor Cell Biology Training Grant Markey Foundation Postdoctoral Fellowship NATO Postdoctoral Fellowship (Awarded Twice) Contact Lab Members Use the dropdown menu on the right to contact individual lab members. For interview requests, please contact LJI's Chief Communications Officer by calling 858.752.6640 or via email at communications@lji.org. Please send general inquiries to contact@lji.org.

Hilde Cheroutre, Ph.D., and her team are studying the development, function, and regulation of white blood cells, a type of T lymphocytes. The laboratory is investigating how the immune system provides protection at “interfaces,” or places where the outside world comes in contact with the inside of the body, such as skin, lungs, mouth, and the largest surface of all, the intestine.

Studying how the immune system works in the intestine is of particular interest because the immune system has to be able to distinguish pathogenic antigens from harmless food peptides and bacteria. The laboratory is investigating how the immune system succeeds in differentiating between the two and what causes the system to fail, allowing the antigens to invade the body.

The lab’s research has been expanded to studying immune memory cells that resist re-entering pathogens or cancer cells. Tumor cells produce tumor antigens, which are cell surface proteins that differ from the proteins expressed by the surrounding normal cells. White blood cells recognize and destroy these transformed cells. Some of these tumor-fighting white blood cells go on to become immune memory cells. These are long-lived cells that activate immediately when they re-encounter tumor antigens, in the case of metastasis or re-occurrence of the tumor.

===== LAB: Shane Crotty =====
A video lecture on Tfh cell biology can be seen here. Germinal centers are the critical sites for the development of long term humoral immunity in the form of antigen-specific [...] Read More Crotty HIV Vaccine Research (AIDS Vaccine Research) Broadly neutralizing antibodies have been discovered in ~5% of HIV+ individuals. Some of those antibodies (HIV bnAbs) are capable of neutralizing over 70% of all known HIV isolates. Finally, providing [...] Read More MORE RESEARCH PROJECTS From the Lab Jul 6, 2026 Research News New HIV vaccine shows unprecedented success in preclinical study Vaccine approach yields high numbers of HIV-neutralizing antibodies in non-human primates Read More Apr 29, 2026 Research News Your nose is a battlefield The FluMist influenza vaccine can activate protective immune cells hidden deep within the nasal passages Read More Apr 14, 2026 Research News We're taking a closer look at immune &#8216;memory' Vaccines teach the body to fight disease. We still have a lot to learn about how long that immune "memory" lasts. Read More Apr 13, 2026 Blog Answering big questions about the new flu and SARS-CoV-2 viral variants An immunology perspective on the influenza "subclade K" variant and the SARS-CoV-2 "Cicada" variant Read More Nov 12, 2025 Immune Matters What the nose knows Dr. Carolyn Moderbacher is pioneering a new technique to study lupus using nasal swabs Read More Apr 24, 2025 Institute News Shane Crotty elected to American Academy of Arts and Sciences Read More View All News Awards & Honors 2005-2009 Pew Scholar in the Biomedical Sciences 2012 American Association of Immunologists (AAI) BD Biosciences Investigator Award for outstanding, early-career research contributions to the field of Immunology 2018 UCSF Immunology Postdoctoral Fellows invited speaker. 2018 Stanford University Immunology Graduate Students invited speaker. 2018 University of Chicago Committee on Immunology (COI) Graduate Student body invited speaker. 2019 Best of Immunity 2018 (Abbott et al. Immunity 2018) 2019 Cancer Research Institute’s (CRI) Fredrick W. Alt Award for New Discoveries in Immunology 2019 Elected Fellow. American Association for the Advancement of Science (AAAS). 2020 Altmetric. #1 public attention ranked paper ever in Cell. Grifoni et al., 2020 2020 Altmetric. #1 public attention ranked paper ever in Nature Reviews Immunology. Sette and Crotty 2020 2020 Nature Top 10 COVID papers of 2020 . Dan et al. COVID-19 immune memory. 2021 NIH MERIT Award 2022 Elected Fellow. American Academy of Microbiology 2023 American Association of Immunologists (AAI) Herzenberg Award. For outstanding career contributions to B cell biology. 2016-2023 Highly Cited Researcher, 8 years running. Thompson Reuters ISI, Web of Science / Clarivate. Contact Lab Members Use the dropdown menu on the right to contact individual lab members. For interview requests, please contact LJI's Chief Communications Officer by calling 858.752.6640 or via email at communications@lji.org. Please send general inquiries to contact@lji.org.

The Crotty Lab’s COVID-19 research has informed vaccine efforts worldwide. As highlighted by Voice of America , this work builds on what scientists have learned about past vaccines and the experimental approaches that may bring a COVID-19 vaccine to patients quickly. As Dr. Crotty has said, “I think there is good reason for optimism, but it’s not like in the movies. It takes a lot of people and a lot of time and effort to puzzle it out.”

===== LAB: Einav =====
The human immune system is a vast, interconnected network, yet most studies only look at one piece of the puzzle. Our lab is building a comprehensive systems-level map to predict [...] Read More Einav Mapping the Antibody Response with Unprecedented Resolution Current antibody assays are akin to viewing the Earth from 30,000 feet: You can see the broad landscape, but not the fine details. We are bringing the view of the [...] Read More Einav Beyond One-Size-Fits-All: Engineering the Future of Lifelong Immunity Influenza vaccine responses are highly heterogeneous, eliciting strong and durable immunity in some but little-to-no response in others. Our lab is bridging the gap between infant, adult, and elderly immunology [...] Read More MORE RESEARCH PROJECTS From the Lab Nov 13, 2025 Immune Matters Processing power Meet the LJI scientists changing medical research through artificial intelligence Read More May 28, 2025 Research News Will this year's flu shot protect you? The answer is hidden in your blood LJI scientists find that a person's past vaccine response—not age, sex, or vaccine dose—is the best predictor of future vaccine responses Read More Oct 31, 2023 Institute News LJI kicks off partnership with San Diego’s Fleet Science Center Fleet's Sharp Minds lecture series to feature immune system experts Read More Jul 25, 2023 Research News New algorithm may fuel vaccine development Computational biologists harness machine learning to make sense of immune system data Read More May 31, 2023 Institute News Computational biologist Tal Einav joins LJI faculty The Einav lab aims to stop deadly viruses by leveraging the vast wealth of data we acquire on the immune system Read More View All News Contact Lab Members Use the dropdown menu on the right to contact individual lab members. For interview requests, please contact LJI's Chief Communications Officer by calling 858.752.6640 or via email at communications@lji.org. Please send general inquiries to contact@lji.org.

After decades of influenza research, we still do not know why vaccines elicit a strong antibody response in some but a negligible response in others. Studies have been conducted in the young and the elderly, across continents, and in humans, mice, ferrets, and swine. They have investigated the effects of different viral strains, transmission methods, and dosing schemes. While these efforts have revealed many processes underlying adaptive immunity, we still lack the ability to predict each person’s response to different vaccine candidates .

The Einav lab leverages the wealth of available data to create a fundamentally new form of personalized medicine that uses your specific antibody profile to determine which vaccine strain would maximally augment your protection. We use these algorithms to explore the limits and tradeoffs of possible immune responses; for example, will a stronger response also be more durable, or is there a tug-of-war between these two traits?

We seek a deep understanding of immunity, and hence the primary tools of our trade include interpretable machine learning algorithms and biophysical models . Our definition of success is to determine actionable “laws of the immune system” that will help us design better vaccines.

===== LAB: Alba Grifoni =====
Read More May 26, 2026 Behind the Science , Blog How our immune cells combat Andes hantavirus LJI scientists lead pandemic preparedness as they develop strategies for stopping rodent-borne viruses Read More May 19, 2026 Research News We can help the body fight entire viral families LJI scientists discover how we can harness T cells to combat deadly infections, including Lassa fever and hantavirus disease Read More Apr 13, 2026 Blog Answering big questions about the new flu and SARS-CoV-2 viral variants An immunology perspective on the influenza "subclade K" variant and the SARS-CoV-2 "Cicada" variant Read More Nov 13, 2025 Immune Matters Processing power Meet the LJI scientists changing medical research through artificial intelligence Read More Aug 7, 2025 Research News LJI scientists develop new approach to fighting many viruses at once New vaccine design pipeline could protect against emerging SARS-CoV-2 variants and more Read More View All News Awards & Honors 2009 &#8211; University of Rome “Tor Vergata” scholarship for academic merit 2013 &#8211; Poster award: 19th Bioinformatic Workshop in Virus Evolution and Molecular Epidemiology 2018 &#8211; American Association for Immunologists Trainee Abstract Award 2020 &#8211; ISSNAF/Embassy of Italy Award to Honor Young Italian researchers for research in COVID-19 2021 &#8211; Boulle-SEI International Award Issued by La Sociedad Española de Inmunología and Jean Boulle Group Contact Lab Members Use the dropdown menu on the right to contact individual lab members. For interview requests, please contact LJI's Chief Communications Officer by calling 858.752.6640 or via email at communications@lji.org. Please send general inquiries to contact@lji.org.

My laboratory leads research into the immune responses to viral infections and particularly what portion of these viruses is recognized by T cell responses. Our work combines bioinformatics and experimental approaches to investigate responses to Coronaviruses (SARS-CoV-2 and other subgenera), Orthopoxviruses (Mpox and Vaccinia), and other emerging pathogens.

Since 2020, I’ve served on the LJI Coronavirus Taskforce to investigate T cell responses to coronaviruses, including SARS-CoV-2 and its many Variants of Concern (VOCs). I’ve worked in close collaboration with LJI faculty members Alessandro Sette, Dr.Biol.Sci., Shane Crotty, Ph.D., and Daniela Weiskopf, Ph.D., to show how the immune system fights initial infection and how T cell memory persists after infection or vaccination. This work has highlighted the importance of T cell responses in SARS-CoV-2 ( Cell, 2020 ). These findings were further expanded to understand more in depth what proteins of SARS-CoV-2 virus are recognized by T cells, providing additional targets for future vaccine development ( Cell Reports Medicine , 2021), and showing the resilience of T cells induced after COVID-19 vaccination in recognizing SARS-CoV-2 VOCs, including Omicron ( Cell Host & Microbe, 2021 ; Cell , 2022). We are now interested in understanding how conserved are the targets inducing T cell responses across different coronaviruses, asking the question what a pan coronavirus vaccine should look like from a T cell perspective.

We continue to work closely with collaborators at LJI and around the globe to enhance preparedness against emerging viral threats, illuminate the roles of T cells, and to guide future vaccine development.

===== LAB: Hastie =====
In my role as Director of Antibody Discovery, I developed a robust, high-throughput platform to isolate lead therapeutic and diagnostic antibodies within weeks of viral emergence or immunization. Key successes [...] Read More Hastie Development of a therapeutic antibody cocktail against New World Arenaviruses The New World Arenaviruses are highly pathogenic viruses spread by rodents ubiquitous in the Americas. No vaccines or therapeutics are yet approved. My lab is characterizing first-in-class antibodies that neutralize [...] Read More MORE RESEARCH PROJECTS From the Lab View All News Awards & Honors PEGS Young Scientist Keynote Speaker, in recognition of outstanding work in the field of protein science, 2019 Spicer Young Investigator Award, for the most outstanding contribution to society from research performed at the SSRL national resource, 2017 Contact Lab Members Use the dropdown menu on the right to contact individual lab members. For interview requests, please contact LJI's Chief Communications Officer by calling 858.752.6640 or via email at communications@lji.org. Please send general inquiries to contact@lji.org.

One of the most effective tools in our arsenal against emerging viral threats is the rapid identification and deployment of therapeutics and vaccines. My research leverages structural biology to decipher the architecture and functional mechanisms of viral proteins. By characterizing the structures of viral surface glycoproteins in complex with antibodies, I aim to elucidate the fundamental mechanisms driving human humoral responses to viral infection, revealing vulnerabilities in these often heavily cloaked proteins.

===== LAB: Patrick Hogan =====
Patrick Hogan, Ph.D., studies cells at the nano level – seeking to understand how protein-protein interactions on the submicroscopic scale can have gargantuan impacts on human health and disease. “My laboratory is interested in the processes by which proteins interact with each other and with DNA to turn on genes in the nucleus. That’s the whole secret of how T cells work,” he said, referring to the body’s infection-fighting white blood cells. “The interactions we study are subtle but can be the key to human health and disease.” Dr. Hogan researches how calcium entry into T cells turns on the genes that are necessary to fight infections and cancers. “This flows from my earlier work in neurobiology,” he said, “where we tried to understand how pain sensory neurons are activated. That was my apprenticeship in how calcium and other ions enter cells, and how cells perceive and respond to signals.” His laboratory made a landmark discovery in 2006, when they studied a protein, ORAI1, that was mutated in two children with immune deficiency, making the children unusually susceptible to life-threatening infections. Dr. Hogan related the immune deficiency directly to calcium by showing that ORAI1 forms the pore of the calcium entry channel in T cells. “The hopeful lesson we take from these immunodeficient patients is that it may be possible to develop new therapies for transplant rejection and autoimmune disorders by targeting the calcium channel,” he said.

Read More Jul 19, 2021 Research News Preparing T cells for the long haul New LJI research could keep cancer-fighting T cells from burning out before the job is done Read More Apr 22, 2019 Research News To respond or tolerate? LJI researchers selectively block immune activation program orchestrated by the nuclear factor NFAT Chemical screen proves feasibility of modulating factor at the hub of immune system's decision to attack or retreat Read More Feb 27, 2019 Research News Scientists devise strategies to counteract T cell exhaustion in CAR T cancer therapies La Jolla Institute scientists show that deleting troublesome proteins in a mouse model can shrink tumors and prolong survival Read More View All News Contact Lab Members Use the dropdown menu on the right to contact individual lab members. For interview requests, please contact LJI's Chief Communications Officer by calling 858.752.6640 or via email at communications@lji.org. Please send general inquiries to contact@lji.org.

===== LAB: Mitchell Kronenberg =====
Vα14 invariant NKT (Vα14 iNKT) cells are a population of T lymphocytes that have several unique characteristics; many of these are related to their ability to function similarly to cells [...] Read More Kronenberg Mucosal Immunology and IBD A major area of research in our laboratory is the regulation of mucosal immunity. We have collaborated extensively with the Hilde Cheroutre laboratory at our Institute on several projects, including [...] Read More MORE RESEARCH PROJECTS From the Lab Apr 24, 2026 Institute News Pioneering LJI scientists Erica Ollmann Saphire and Mitchell Kronenberg elected to the American Academy of Arts and Sciences Saphire and Kronenberg have made major immunology breakthroughs. Now they will receive one of the nation's highest honors. Read More Feb 23, 2026 Institute News The (microbe) highway to the danger zone LJI Professor Mitchell Kronenberg shows how immune cells defend your most vulnerable organs. His discoveries recently earned top recognition from the American Academy of Microbiology. Read More May 5, 2025 Immune Matters Betrayed by bile ducts? LJI researchers look for clues to treating a mysterious autoimmune disease Autoimmune disease is much more common in women than men. Scientists aren’t sure why. A strange illness that strikes the bile duct network may provide important clues. Read More Jun 19, 2024 Research News New research points to ‘stem-like’ T cells as culprits in ulcerative colitis LJI scientists zero in on T cells that may drive autoimmune disease in human patients Read More Nov 10, 2023 Research News A closer look at rebel T cells LJI researchers investigate a group of T cells known for their unusual response to pathogens Read More May 25, 2023 Research News Can sugar and fat influence immune cell responses? LJI scientists find MAIT cells can be tuned to fight different pathogens via their metabolism, paving the way for new therapeutic strategies Read More View All News Awards & Honors American Association of Immunologists Distinguished Fellow (inaugural class), 2019 Distinguished Immunology Speaker, University of Basel Immunology Community, Basel Switzerland, 2017 American Association of Immunologists Distinguished Service Award, 2016 Most Admired CEO (large nonprofit category) awarded by the San Diego Business Journal 2016 Fellow, American Association for the Advancement of Science, 2015 Institute for Scientific Information (ISI) Highly Cited Scientist, 2007 NIH NIAID Merit (R37) Award, 2006 Burroughs Wellcome Fund Visiting Professor in Basic Biomedical Sciences (Harvard University), 2002 Roy and Robert Kroc Distinguished Professor in Medicine and Immunology, UC Davis, 2000 R.F. and E.A. Dwyer Award for Excellence of the Jonsson Cancer Center, 1993 NIH Postdoctoral Training Grant Fellowship NIH Predoctoral Training Grant Fellowship Links A Method For Production of Recombinant mCD1d Protein in Insect Cells. How NKT Cells Tell the Rest of the Immune System What to Do? HVEM at Mucosal Barriers Presented by Mitchell Kronenberg Engineering Blood Cells in the Fight Against Cancer &#038; Other Diseases &#8211; Mitchell Kronenberg Contact Lab Members Use the dropdown menu on the right to contact individ

===== LAB: Li =====
Read More Mar 28, 2023 Research News We’ve learned a lot from lymphocytic choriomeningitis virus—now the time has come to fight it LJI scientists share high-resolution view of the lymphocytic choriomeningitis virus (LCMV) glycoprotein together with a neutralizing antibody Read More Jan 17, 2023 Research News Durable SARS-CoV-2 antibodies bind to two viral targets at once "Bivalent" antibodies can continue to neutralize Omicron and Omicron lineages Read More Oct 26, 2022 Research News New Lassa fever therapy may be on the horizon Three rare antibodies, combined in a "cocktail," are effective in fighting Lassa virus Read More Sep 23, 2021 Research News From Alpha to Epsilon: Consortium study illuminates surfaces of Spike most resistant to antibody escape LJI-led Coronavirus Immunotherapeutic Consortium identifies antibody 'communities' with power to stop SARS-CoV-2 variants Read More View All News Awards & Honors Stephen I. Katz Early-stage Investigator Award, NIH/NIAID, 2026 Xiang-Hui Extraordinary Student Award, Fudan University, 2014 Annual Merit Student, University of Chinese Academy of Sciences, 2013 Contact Lab Members Use the dropdown menu on the right to contact individual lab members. For interview requests, please contact LJI's Chief Communications Officer by calling 858.752.6640 or via email at communications@lji.org. Please send general inquiries to contact@lji.org.

Biomembranes distinguish life from non-living matter in our world. In essence, either pathogen invasion of human cells or the functioning of our immune system relies on the precise molecular recognition on the membrane and the information exchange across the membrane. For instance, viruses utilize host receptors to open the “door” on the cell membrane for infection; immune cells live in a signaling network, in which cells determine their functions and fates by accepting instructions via various ligand-receptor interactions; antibodies and T-cell receptors recognize specific antigens presented on the surface of infected cells or tumor cells to exert immune protection.

Dr. Haoyang Li and his research group focus on capturing and delineating these crucial molecular interactions in action to fundamentally understand the mechanisms of viral infection, immune signaling networks, and protection conferred by the immune system. The essential knowledge and insights gained through structural immunology research provide high-resolution, molecular-level blueprints for novel vaccine design and therapeutic innovation.

By applying the powerful mechanism-to-therapeutic approach, Dr. Li is currently leading his team in understanding how Old World arenaviruses hijack host receptors to facilitate infection, architecting novel Lassa virus immunogens to guide the immune system toward comprehensive protection, and uncovering the mechanisms of immunoregulatory molecules to precisely tune inflammatory signaling for the treatment of autoimmune diseases, life-threatening infections and cancers.

===== LAB: Samuel Myers =====
Read More Apr 29, 2024 Research News Researchers reveal how protein modifications power T cells LJI scientists share a new, rapid method for studying phosphorylation and other post-translational modifications Read More Jan 11, 2023 Research News LJI scientists solve the mystery of why OGT enzyme is critical for cell survival New findings open door to better understanding cancers and many other diseases Read More Mar 2, 2021 Institute News Proteomics expert Sam Myers to join LJI faculty Myers Lab to expand autoimmune disease research, cancer and more Read More View All News Awards & Honors 2019 Molecular and Cellular Proteomics Early Career Award 2010 National Science Foundation Graduate Research Fellowship Links My NCBI Collection &#8211; Samuel A. Myers Contact Lab Members Use the dropdown menu on the right to contact individual lab members. For interview requests, please contact LJI's Chief Communications Officer by calling 858.752.6640 or via email at communications@lji.org. Please send general inquiries to contact@lji.org.

Cells must integrate multiple, simultaneous, often contradictory cues about their environment before “deciding” how to respond. Immune cells, for example, balance protective inflammatory responses to clear tissues of pathogens or cancerous cells, while tolerating commensal microbes and self-antigens to avoid autoinflammatory disorders. These signals propagate through extensive biochemical networks within cells, where small molecules are rapidly added and removed from proteins. These protein post-translational modifications (PTMs) control nearly every cellular process from gene expression and differentiation to inducing local cell death or orchestrating systemic immune responses. Only a handful of landmark PTMs are used to study these cellular behaviors, leaving hundreds to thousands of dynamic signaling events overlooked and unnoticed. This oversight impedes our understanding of how immune cells process information, diminishing our capacity to control specific cell fate decisions.

My laboratory develops and applies interdisciplinary approaches to study global signaling dynamics, and how PTMs of different chemistries interact with and influence one another. While our focus is on protein mass spectrometry and quantitative proteomics, we integrate genomics, chemical biology, and genetic engineering to delineate how various signaling pathways integrate into the gene expression machinery to drive immune cell activation and differentiation. Understanding these complex yet fundamental aspects of signaling-to-transcription networks in immune cells is crucial for our ability to prevent and treat not only autoimmune disorders, but cardiovascular disease, neurodegeneration, and cancer.

===== LAB: Bjoern Peters =====
Investigation of human immune signatures of latent MTB infection, active disease and BCG vaccination. (NIH/NIAID, U19 AI118626) Proteome-wide characterization of T cell epitopes from Mycobacterium tuberculosis in vaccination and active [...] Read More Peters Whooping Cough Research to identify mechanisms and correlates of long-lasting vaccine-induced immunity to whooping cough. The lab aims to define transcriptional responses to vaccine boost from donors originally primed with aP vs. [...] Read More Peters Allergic Diseases Pediatric Milk Allergy: To study the frequency and phenotype of milk allergen-specific T cells in cohorts with different disease manifestations and define molecular markers of disease status and progression to [...] Read More MORE RESEARCH PROJECTS From the Lab Apr 7, 2026 Institute News LJI will receive up to $17.6 million to support critical database for biomedical innovation The Immune Epitope Database will continue to expand, thanks to renewed funding from the NIAID Read More Nov 13, 2025 Immune Matters Processing power Meet the LJI scientists changing medical research through artificial intelligence Read More Mar 14, 2024 Research News Vac to the future Vaccine researchers take on the challenge of predicting B. pertussis immunization outcomes Read More Feb 28, 2024 Research News A step toward personalized immunotherapy for all Scientists find evidence that all cancer patients mount an immune response to their tumors, suggesting that many more patients could benefit from personalized immunotherapy Read More Feb 14, 2023 Institute News New $17 million grant establishes LJI as global hub for immunology data curation and analysis NIAID support opens gateway to new research into human immune responses to viruses, the development of autoimmune diseases, and more Read More Nov 15, 2022 Institute News LJI scientists reflect on what it means to make the “Highly Cited” list A record number of LJI researchers have been named to the 2022 list, including two early career scientists Read More View All News Links IEDB Ontology for Biomedical Investigations Google Scholar Profile Contact Lab Members Use the dropdown menu on the right to contact individual lab members. For interview requests, please contact LJI's Chief Communications Officer by calling 858.752.6640 or via email at communications@lji.org. Please send general inquiries to contact@lji.org.

Research in the Peters lab is focused on three areas relating to developing computational tools to address fundamental questions in immunology.

Starting as a PhD student in 2000, Dr. Peters has worked on the development and validation of tools to analyze and predict which parts of a pathogen, allergen, or cancer cell are targeted by immune responses. Identifying these specific molecular targets of immune responses, called epitopes, recognized by diseased individuals opens a path toward developing diagnostics, vaccines, and therapeutics. The tools the Peters lab develops aim to reduce the experimental effort required to identify these targets. Machine learning-based predictions allow researchers to focus their experiments on the molecules most likely to be recognized.

===== LAB: Rad =====
B cells are the source of antibodies, but they are far more than antibody factories: they are living sensors and learners, transforming molecular encounters into lasting memory and protection. Without B cells and the antibodies they produce, modern biomedical research, diagnostics, and many therapies would not exist. In the body, antibodies help prevent and resolve infection by blocking pathogens, tagging them for removal, and limiting their ability to spread. Each B cell develops in the bone marrow with a unique antibody receptor, giving it a distinct way of recognizing a target. B cells remain poised until they are activated by encountering an antigen, typically in peripheral lymphoid organs. During immune responses, this recognition can be refined in specialized structures called germinal centers. There, B cells are tested, selected, and improved: those with competitive binding can become stronger and more effective responders, while less competitive versions are lost. We study how this B cell tuning happens, what determines which responses are amplified or lost, and how these choices shape the formation of memory B cells and antibody-secreting plasma cells. By understanding how B cells learn, we aim to guide immune responses toward more durable protection and better ways to prevent, detect, and treat disease.

Read More May 28, 2024 Research News How COVID-19 &#8216;breakthrough' infections alter your immune cells LA JOLLA, CA—New research from scientists at La Jolla Institute for Immunology (LJI) suggests people who received COVID-19 vaccines and then experienced “breakthrough” infections are especially well armed against future SARS-CoV-2 infections. Read More View All News Awards & Honors 2025 Scripps CHAVD Young Investigator Award 2020 Trainee Abstract Award, American Association of Immunologists 2019 Trainee Abstract Award, American Association of Immunologists 2016 Postdoctoral Fellowship, Cancer Centers Council (C3) San Diego's NCI-Designated Cancer Centers Links Google Scholar Contact Lab Members Use the dropdown menu on the right to contact individual lab members. For interview requests, please contact LJI's Chief Communications Officer by calling 858.752.6640 or via email at communications@lji.org. Please send general inquiries to contact@lji.org.

===== LAB: Sydney Ramirez =====
Read More Jul 31, 2024 Research News LJI scientists capture immune cells hidden in nasal passages LJI scientists pioneer new method for measuring immune memory and SARS-CoV-2 responses in the upper airway Read More Jun 20, 2024 Institute News Sydney Ramirez receives prestigious Burroughs Wellcome Fund Career Award Ramirez brings a doctor's perspective to infectious disease research Read More View All News Awards & Honors NIH NIAID K08 Mentored Clinical Scientist Research Career Development Award (2026-) STAT Wunderkind (2025) Burroughs Wellcome Fund Career Award for Medical Scientists (2024-) A.P. Giannini Postdoctoral Research Fellowship and Leadership Award (2021-2024) Contact Lab Members Use the dropdown menu on the right to contact individual lab members. For interview requests, please contact LJI's Chief Communications Officer by calling 858.752.6640 or via email at communications@lji.org. Please send general inquiries to contact@lji.org.

Sydney Ramirez, M.D., Ph.D., and her team study human immunology, with an emphasis on upper airway immunity and immune memory in the contexts of health and disease. The upper airway serves as an entry point for many infections and environmental insults, and local immune cell populations present in these tissues are poised to play important roles in surveillance and protection. By studying mucosal immunity and how mucosal immune memory is generated and maintained, we can gain a more complete understanding of the body's complex and multi-layered immune defenses.

===== LAB: Anjana Rao =====
More recently, our laboratory has focused on the role of epigenetic regulators in gene expression. In 2009, our laboratory described the enzymatic activities of the three mammalian TET (Ten-Eleven-Translocation) proteins, TET1, TET2 and TET3 [ https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/19372391/ ]. TET proteins are dioxygenases that oxidize 5-methylcytosine (5mc) to 5-hydroxymethylcytosine (5hmC) and further oxidized products (5fC, 5caC). TET proteins regulate gene expression and enhancer activity, and play a central role in cell lineage specification, embryonic development, neuronal function and cancer [ https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/31965999/ ]. There is a notable association between TET loss of function and cancer. TET2 loss-of-function mutations are frequently observed in myeloid and lymphoid malignancies, but many other cancers – solid cancers as well as cancers of the blood – can be identified by the fact that they display low 5hmC levels even in the absence of any mutations in TET2 or the other TET genes [ https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/21057493/ ]. Indeed, diverse metabolic aberrations, found in many solid cancers, lead to profound losses of TET function and likely contribute to oncogenesis [ https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/25132561/ , https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/26595486/ , https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/31467060/ ].

Our long-term research focus has been to understand how signaling pathways control gene expression, using T cells and other cells of the immune system as models. In collaboration with the lab of Professor Patrick Hogan, we previously showed that gene expression is regulated by calcium influx into many different types of cells: it involves a process known as store-operated calcium entry, which activates a phosphatase, calcineurin, which dephosphorylates and sends a transcription factor, NFAT, to the nucleus [ https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/12975316/ ]. NFAT turns on a large number of genes, in a manner appropriate to the cell type and mode of stimulation; in T cells, it controls both the positive transcriptional programs of T cell “activation” and negative programs, known variously as “exhaustion”, “anergy” or “dysfunction”, that attenuate T cell activation [ https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/25680272/ ]. These terms all refer to a hyporesponsive state observed under conditions of sustained antigen stimulation in cancer and chronic viral infections.

To understand the biological implications of this hyporesponsive program, our lab uses mouse models of anti-tumor responses that involve adoptive transfer of T cells bearing chimeric antigen receptors (CAR-T cells). Using these models, we have identified important targets of NFAT in the exhaustion program, including transcription factors of the NR4A and TOX families [ https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/30814732/ , https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/31152140/ ]. Our current research will contribute to a broad mechanistic understanding of the transcriptional mechanisms operating in tumor-infiltrating immune cells, and may spark improved immunotherapies for cancer patients.

===== END batch 1/2 =====
