########## DISTILL OVERVIEWS — scripps batch 4/8 (15 labs) ##########

For EACH lab below, write a plain-language research overview (~110-140 words) a first-year undergrad
with no field background could read to decide if they want to email the lab. Say WHAT the lab studies,
HOW (methods/approach), and WHY it matters. Ground it ONLY in that lab's provided text — do NOT invent
specifics, numbers, or techniques not present. If a lab's text is too thin/administrative to describe
its research, set that lab's value to "" (empty) rather than padding — an honest gap beats a fake overview.

Write your answer as a JSON object {"<exact lab name>": "<overview or ''>", ...} to this ABSOLUTE path:
  /home/roman/agent/codebases/labreach/data/agent-overviews/scripps-batch3.json

===== LAB: Amy Lightner, MD =====
Professor of Surgery, Scripps Clinic Medical Group, San Diego, CA Colorectal Surgeon, May 2023 - current Chief Medical Officer, Direct Biologics, LLC, Austin, TX and San Diego, CA Director of Clinical Operations, Medical Affairs, and R&D in late stage Biotech, November 2022-current Chief Medical Officer, Boomerang Medical, Los Altos, CA Director of Clinical Operations of a Medtech, In House Residence in Fogarty Innovations, February 2022-current Cleveland Clinic Center for Regenerative Medicine and Surgery, Cleveland, OH Director of the Center for Regenerative Medicine and Surgery, January 2020-November 2022 Cleveland Clinic Department of Colorectal Surgery, Cleveland, OH Associate Professor of Surgery in Cleveland Clinic Digestive Disease Institute, 2019-current Lerner Research Institute, Cleveland Clinic, Cleveland OH Associate Professor of Inflammation and Immunity, 2019-current Center for Regenerative Medicine, Mayo Clinic, Rochester MN Director of the Translation, Implementation and Practice Platform, 2016-2019 Mayo Clinic Department of Surgery, Division of Colon and Rectal Surgery, Rochester MN Assistant Professor of Surgery in Mayo Clinic College of Medicine Senior Associate Consultant in Division of Colon and Rectal Surgery, 2016-2019 Mayo Clinic Department of Surgery, Division of Colon and Rectal Surgery, Rochester MN Surgical Fellow in Division of Colon and Rectal Surgery, 2015-2016 UCLA Department of General Surgery, David Geffen School of Medicine at UCLA General Surgery Categorical Resident, 2008-2015 Postdoctoral Fellow, Department of Immunology, Stanford University California Institute for Regenerative Medicine, 2010-2012, Stanford, CA.

The Lightner lab focuses on inflammatory bowel disease, which is on the rise globally, now affecting 1:100 in the United States alone. Despite decades of research, scientists still don't understand what causes inflammatory bowel disease. Treatment options remain limited, placating symptoms rather than curing the disease.

Lightner’s lab uses organoids derived from human tissues taken from surgical patients to study the cause of inflammatory bowel disease and discover potential novel therapeutics that focus on tissue regeneration and restoration. This serves as a model for drug discovery, both in her lab and across collaborations with other labs. Products from her lab are then studied in first-in-human clinical trials to establish and underscore safety in this patient population, with a goal of providing better, more effective treatment options, while simultaneously better understanding the underlying disease.

M.D., Boston University School of Medicine, Boston, MA, 2008 Bachelor of Arts in Human Biology with a focus in Sports Medicine, Stanford University, 2003

Dr. Amy Lightner has spent her career moving between the operating room and the research lab, treating ulcerative colitis (UC) and other inflammatory bowel disease (IBD) patients as a surgeon while also searching for better treatments as a scientist.

CLF065, a long-acting, once-weekly GLP-2 receptor agonist, advances in two inflammatory bowel disease indications. The studies aim to bring a regenerative treatment option to patients living with IBD, who currently have few therapies that repair the damaged intestinal lining at the root of their disease.

After enduring decades of complications from Crohn’s disease, Gary Jacobson received a pioneering treatment from a Scripps Research professor that gave him relief and a renewed sense of control.

===== LAB: Giordano Lippi, PhD =====
Neurons have unique gene expression challenges in space and time. The polarized morphology that is essential for their function emerges from strict compartmentalization of gene products. Because of the distance between the nucleus and the dendrites and axon, neurons regulate protein production locally, so that the rapid changes required for plasticity can occur. In addition, neurons undergo profound changes in gene expression during development, allowing them to acquire a variety of morphological features and find the appropriate synaptic partners. However, the molecular mechanisms that confer neurons these features remain largely unknown. The overarching goal of my research program is to address this gap using cutting edge technologies that we develop in the lab. In particular, we focus on microRNAs (miRNAs), a family of non-coding RNAs, that are negative regulators of gene expression. Intriguingly, recent discoveries suggest that the number of protein-coding genes has changed very little from unicellular to complex multicellular organisms. Instead, the increase in biological complexity derives from additional layers of regulation of gene expression provided by the expansion of the non-coding RNA repertoire and miRNAs in particular. Many miRNAs are enriched in the brain and increase their expression during development, suggesting that they play fundamental roles in establishing properly balanced neural networks. Consistently, recent literature indicates that changes in miRNA levels are linked to multiple neurodevelopmental disorders, including autism, schizophrenia and epilepsy.

We showed that miRNAs are master regulators of critical developmental windows in multiple neuronal subtypes (Lippi et al. 2016; Dulcis, Lippi et al. 2017; Taylor et al. 2023; Zolboot et al. 2023). For example, using an array of techniques, including single unit recording in freely moving animals, calcium imaging, electrophysiology, and behavioral studies, we demonstrated that even a temporary inhibition of specific miRNAs can trigger profound long-term consequences for network stability and function (Lippi et al. 2016, Taylor et al. 2023). The changes include excessive synaptic activity, propensity for seizure-like activity, and memory impairments, recurrent pathological features shared by many neurodevelopmental disorders. Using in vivo dissection of miRNA function, we identified and parsed out the molecular pathways regulated by the miRNAs to achieve a properly balanced network. Interestingly, several of the miRNA targets identified had already been linked to specific features of neurodevelopmental disorders. Taken together, these findings suggest that miRNAs tightly regulate a core of highly interconnected developmental programs that control critical developmental windows.

Ph.D. (Biotechnology and Molecular Medicine), University of Modena and Reggio Emilia, 2009 B.S. (Medical Biotechnology), University of Modena and Reggio Emilia, 2003

2010-2017 Postdoctoral Research Fellow, Section of Neurobiology, University of California, San Diego, USA. Laboratory of Darwin K. Berg, Ph.D. 2009-2010 Career Development Fellow, MRC Toxicology Unit, Leicester, UK. Laboratory of Pierluigi Nicotera, Ph.D. 2004-2009 Graduate Student, University of Modena and Reggio Emilia, Modena, Italy. Laboratory of Michele Zoli, Ph.D.

Scripps Research and UC San Diego scientists used a novel method to show that some memory neurons produce proteins at higher rates than others.

===== LAB: Stuart A. Lipton, MD, PhD =====
1968/1969 National Merit Finalist/Ford Foundation Scholarship (Six-year PhD Program Cornell University) 1971 Phi Beta Kappa 1973 Mary Ellis Bell Prize for Research, University of Pennsylvania School of Medicine 1974 Alpha Omega Alpha (Medical Honor Society) 1976 Baluin-Lucke Memorial Prize for Research, University of Pennsylvania School of Medicine 1979 Von L. Meyer Research Award, Children's Hospital/Harvard Medical School, Boston, MA 1989 Pattison Award in Neuroscience Research 1994 Nobel Foundation Lecture, Karolinska Institute, Stockholm, Sweden 1995 Science Citation by The Scientist (based on data from Science Citation Index of the Institute for Scientific Information, Philadelphia) for publishing the hottest (most cited) paper of the preceding two-year period in the field of Biochemistry (Lipton et al., Nature 1993;364:626-632); 1995 Nobel Foundation Lecture, Nobel Symposium on HIV Infection in the Brain, Nobel Forum, Karolinska Institute, Stockholm, Sweden 1997 Science Citation by The Scientist (based on data from Science Citation Index of the Institute for Scientific Information, Philadelphia) for publishing the hottest (most cited) paper of the preceding two-year period in the field of Neuroscience (Ankarcrona et al., Neuron 1995;15:961-973) 2001 Invited Speaker, Nobel Symposium on Apoptosis, Stockholm, Sweden 2001 The Ellison Medical Foundation Senior Scholar Award 2002 San Diego Health Hero Award, American Parkinson’s Disease Association 2004 Ernst Jung Prize in Medicine (for drug development, characterization of mechanism of action, and therapeutic consequences of Memantine, the first potentially neuroprotective drug approved by the European Medicines Agency and FDA for moderate-to-severe Alzheimer‚Äôs disease) 2005 MRC Lectureship in Neurotoxicology 2005 NINDS/NIH Neurodegenerative Disease Annual Invited Lectureship 2010 Nobel Foundation Lecture, Nobel Symposium on the Cell Cycle and Cell Death, Nobel Forum, Stockholm, Sweden 2011 Elected AAAS Fellow, Neuroscience Section 2012 Honorary Citizen of New Orleans from New Orleans City Council for Service on Neurosciences Board of LSU Health Sciences Center 2012 Outstanding Student Research Mentorship Award, University of California San Diego Health Sciences Clinical and Translational Research Institute 2012 Seoul National University College of Medicine, Award Lecture on “Role of Transcription Factor MEF2C in Controlling Embryonic Stem Cell Neurogenesis and Autism Spectrum Disorder” 2012 John F. Anderson Memorial Lecture, University of Virginia, Charlottesville, VA 2013 Annual Distinguished Biomedical Scholar Lecture Series, Carver College of Medicine, University of Iowa, Iowa City, IA 2013 Courage and Hope Award for Scientific Research, Alzheimer’s Disease Association 2013 Redox Pioneer (one of ten awards made world-wide to that date) from the journal Antioxidants & Redox Signaling 2013 Featured Scientist studying Alzheimer's disease, The Economist http://www.economist.com/news/science-and-technology/21579792-search-treatment-dementia-continues-beta-testing 2014 Brain & Behavior Research Foundation Distinguished Investigator Award 2015 Featured Profile (Neurology), The Lancet http://w

M.D. (Medicine), University of Pennsylvania, 1977 Ph.D. (Biochemistry & Biophysics), University of Pennsylvania, 1977 B.A. (Immunology and Neurobiology), Cornell University, 1971

External Joint Appointments Department of Neurosciences/Neurology, University of California, San Diego, School of Medicine ( https://providers.ucsd.edu/details/22261/neurology )

===== LAB: Tiantian Liu =====
We study the gene regulatory networks governing Antigen-Presenting Cell development, and develop genetically engineered mouse models to reveal the overlapping and unique functions of each Antigen-Presenting Cell subset. Our long-term goal is to leverage these insights to develop innovative vaccines and therapies that modulate T cell responses for the treatment of infectious diseases, autoimmune disorders, and cancer.

Antigen-Presenting Cells are important immune regulators and play a central role in regulating T cell-mediated immunity. To defeat distinct types of pathogens while maintaining immune homeostasis, a diverse group of Antigen-Presenting Cells has evolved, each with specialized functions in T cell priming.

2016-2023 Postdoctoral Associate, Dr. Kenneth Murphy’s Laboratory Washington University School of Medicine, St. Louis, MO

The newly appointed faculty are making transformative discoveries in areas ranging across drug discovery, neuroscience, chemistry, immunity and more.

You can choose to enable or disable some or all of these cookies but disabling some of them may affect your browsing experience.

===== LAB: Yuzhong Liu, PhD =====
QS-21 is one of the few FDA-approved adjuvants: molecules that improve vaccine effectiveness by boosting the overall immune response. QS-21 is traditionally harvested from trees—the 21st fraction of Quillaja saponaria soapbark tree extract, to be exact—and obtaining the molecule is both arduous and ecologically damaging. To make QS-21 more accessible, assistant chemistry professor Yuzhong Liu, PhD, who recently joined Scripps Research, harnessed her background in synthetic biology to produce this highly sought-after molecule in yeast. These findings from her postdoctoral work at the University of California, Berkeley were published in Nature in May 2024.

The Liu laboratory develops synthetic biology and biocatalysis platforms to produce and diversify complex, biologically active molecules. By combining pathway engineering, enzyme discovery and evolution, microbial fermentation, and chemical biology, the lab seeks to make valuable natural products more accessible while creating molecular structures that are difficult to obtain through conventional synthesis.

Major research areas include: i) the biosynthesis and engineering of complex glycosides, particularly saponin vaccine adjuvants such as QS-21;

Ultimately, we aim to use natural and engineered enzymes as programmable catalysts for chemical synthesis, enabling new vaccines, therapeutics, and functional materials.

Some of the most powerful medicines we use today come from natural products, which are specialized molecules that plants and microbes have evolved over millions of years. Sugars play a key role in these compounds—determining how a molecule behaves, where it travels in the body and how strongly it activates the immune system. In this Front Row lecture, Scripps Research chemist Yuzhong Liu demonstrated how her lab uses synthetic biology to decode the role of sugars in medicine—helping scientists build next-generation vaccine adjuvants, cancer therapies and safer treatments.

Magazine Scripps Research assistant professor Yuzhong Liu receives PhRMA Foundation Faculty Starter Grant in Drug Discovery

Yuzhong Liu, an assistant professor at Scripps Research, has been awarded the 2026 PhRMA Foundation Faculty Starter Grant in Drug Discovery to support her work in synthetic chemistry and synthetic biology.

The Human Immunome Project has awarded Yuzhong Liu, assistant professor in the Department of Chemistry at Scripps Research, a 2024 Michelson Prize to support cancer vaccine research.

News Collaboration awards enable scientists to design new medicines, more precisely edit DNA and fight drug-resistant bacteria

Liu recently joined the Scripps Research faculty to chemically modify biomolecules, which can be used to improve the efficacy and safety of both new and existing therapies.

You can choose to enable or disable some or all of these cookies but disabling some of them may affect your browsing experience.

===== LAB: Martin Lotz, MD =====
You are only as old as you think you are. At least, that’s how the saying goes. But what does it mean to age, anyway? Increasingly, science has some surprising answers—and some promising solutions.

Transcriptional coactivator PGC-1 alpha regulates chondrogenesis via association with Sox9. Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences of the United States of America 2005 , 102, 2414-2419.

Miyaki, S.; Lotz, Martin K. Extracellular vesicles in cartilage homeostasis and osteoarthritis. Current Opinion in Rheumatology 2018 , 30, 129-135.

Scripps Research scientists discovered that a mutation in the touch-sensitive PIEZO1 ion channel impacts tendon biology and boosts the physical performance of mice.

You can choose to enable or disable some or all of these cookies but disabling some of them may affect your browsing experience.

===== LAB: Ian MacRae, PhD =====
RNA interference (RNAi) is a broad-spread mechanism of gene silencing that plays a fundamental role in many aspects of eukaryotic biology including viral defense, developmental timing, stem cell division, memory and learning. We are interested in understanding the molecular mechanisms underlying RNA interference (RNAi) and related RNA silencing processes. Our approach is to combine techniques in structural biology with biochemistry and cell biology in order to understand the mechanistic details of RNAi. On the molecular level RNAi is mediated by a family of ribonucleo-protein complexes called RNA-Induced Silencing Complexes (RISCs), which silence genes by mediating translational repression and degradation of targeted message RNAs. The versatility and power of RNAi arises from the fact that RISC can be programmed to target any nucleic acid sequence for silencing. RISC programming is therefore a critical cellular function, requiring the action of a specialized macromolecular assembly called the RISC-loading complex (RLC). Our current research is focused on illuminating the structure and catalytic mechanism of the RLC with the hope that this knowledge will facilitate the development of RNAi-based therapeutics for the treatment of human disease.

Ph.D. (Molecular & Cellular Biology), University of California, Davis, 2002 B.S. (Biochemistry), Univ. California, Davis, 1996

2012 Blasker Science & Technology Award 2009 Baxter Foundation Young Faculty Award 2008 Pew Scholar in the Biomedical Sciences 2002 Life Sciences Research Foundation Postdoctoral Fellowship

A Scripps Research team has captured the first high-resolution structural images of human Argonaute 2 in its cutting-ready state, revealing why some small interfering RNA (siRNA) molecules work better than others and how to design more effective ones for this emerging therapy.

Select Publications Sarkar, Sucharita; MacRae, Ian J. Molecular arms in microbial defense: Argonautes and Cas4 nucleases team up. Molecular Cell 2025 , 85.

Xiao, Yao; Liu, Ting Yu M.; MacRae, Ian J. A tiny loop in the Argonaute PIWI domain tunes small RNA seed strength. EMBO Reports 2023 , 24.

Event Immunology &#038; Microbiology Explore News Molecular scissors caught in action: A structural blueprint for RNA therapeutics

A Scripps Research team has captured the first high-resolution structural images of human Argonaute 2 in its cutting-ready state, revealing why some small interfering RNA (siRNA) molecules work better than others and how to design more effective ones for this emerging therapy.

Scripps Research scientists reveal that microRNAs guide the development of Purkinje cells, a rare type of neuron linked to neurodevelopmental disorders.

News Scripps Research awards doctoral degrees to class of 2020, celebrates graduates’ diverse scientific accomplishments

The Skaggs Graduate School of Chemical and Biological Sciences awarded doctorates to 44 young scientists who comprise the 28th graduating class at Scripps Research. In lieu of the traditional annual commencement ceremony, a virtual celebration will be held in July.

You can choose to enable or disable some or all of these cookies but disabling some of them may affect your browsing experience.

===== LAB: Anton Maximov, PhD =====
Our unique memories make us who we are. Representations of the external world are stored in the brain by billions of neurons with diverse morphologies, molecular compositions and physiological roles. Each of these neurons forms up to several thousand synaptic contacts that transmit signals with remarkable speed and precision. The Maximov laboratory seeks to uncover the mechanisms that regulate neuronal connectivity at molecular, cellular and circuit levels. We primarily focus on the hippocampus, a laminated structure within the limbic system of the brain that is critical for memory, emotions and navigation. We study the architecture and function of hippocampal circuits by using a variety of genetic, biophysical and behavioral techniques. We are particularly interested in understanding how synaptic networks of specific excitatory and inhibitory neuron subtypes are reorganized during learning, and how these experience-dependent events contribute to memory coding. We heavily rely on optical imaging, serial electron microscopy and computational tools to define the role of experience in wiring of the hippocampal pathway at scales ranging from global to subcellular. In parallel, we elucidate the molecular bases of network plasticity and information storage by combining human genetics data, unbiased screens, and analysis of candidate genes in mouse models. As a part of this research program, we also design new tools to manipulate genetically-defined and behaviorally-relevant neural ensembles with small molecules.

Ph.D. (Biology), Russian Academy of Sciences, 1998 M.S. (Biophysics/Biochemistry), St.-Petersburg State University, Russia, 1996

1994 – 1998 Research Intern, Graduate Student. Institute of Cytology, Russian Academy of Sciences, St. Petersburg, Russia. 1998 – 2002 Postdoctoral training. Department of Physiology, UT Southwestern Medical Center, Dallas, TX. 2002 – 2007 Postdoctoral training. Center for Basic Neuroscience, UT Southwestern Medical Center, Dallas, TX. 2008 – 2014 Assistant Professor. Department of Cell Biology, Department of Molecular and Cellular Neuroscience, The Dorris Neuroscience Center, The Scripps Research Institute, La Jolla, CA. 2014 – 2023 Associate Professor (Tenured) Department of Neuroscience, The Dorris Neuroscience Center, The Scripps Research Institute, La Jolla, CA.

2025 – present Professor and Chair, Department of Neuroscience; Director, Dorris Neuroscience Center, The Scripps Research Institute, La Jolla, CA.

Using cutting-edge genetic tools, 3D electron microscopy, and artificial intelligence, Scripps Research scientists and colleagues have uncovered key structural hallmarks of long-term memory, called an engram. Their study, published in Science on March 20, 2025, paves the way for future advances in treating memory loss and other cognitive impairments associated with aging and neurodegenerative diseases.

The method could shed light on what goes awry in numerous brain conditions when neurons are correctly and incorrectly activated or inhibited.

Scripps Research technique makes it easier to analyze body-wide biological processes and diseases such as COVID-19 infection.

A total of 42 graduates are earning PhDs after completing their academic journey at the Skaggs Graduate School of Chemical and Biological Sciences.

Brain cells appear less vulnerable to DNA damage than previously thought, according to a new study led by scientists at Scripps Research.

You can choose to enable or disable some or all of these cookies but disabling some of them may affect your browsing experience.

===== LAB: Alejandra Mendoza, PhD =====
Neuro-immune interactions at barrier tissues In the tissues that interface the environment, diverse cell types communicate to enable integration of, and adequate reaction to a wide range of stimuli such as temperature, mechanical and chemical stresses, tissue damage, and infection. Cells of the nervous and immune systems sense potentially harmful deviations from normality and ensure the avoidance, clearance, or sequestration of their causative agents. One of the goals of the lab is to understand how sensory neurons respond and influence inflammation. Endogenous opioids and inflammation Our lab seeks to uncover how endogenous opioid signaling mediates communication between sensory neurons and immune cells to regulate tissue homeostasis. We are interested in uncovering the molecular underpinnings of endogenous analgesics’ roles in maintaining physiological equilibrium in response to sensory inputs, a key concept that may have major implications on novel therapies for chronic conditions involving pain, itch, and inflammation. Cellular states and the balance of immune responses Our lab is interested in how environmental signals at barrier tissues orchestrate transcriptional programs that shape the activation states of immune cells, giving rise to functionally distinct effector, memory, and regulatory populations. A central goal is to uncover the spatial organization and functional heterogeneity of these cellular states, the circuits they form with other cell types, and how the balance between them governs protective immunity against pathogens, chronic inflammation, and tissue function.

Contact Alejandra Mendoza, PhD Email (858) 784-9644 Joint Appointments Department of Neuroscience Graduate Program Member of the Graduate Program faculty.

Just as we can distinguish between the sting of heat and the chill of cold, our immune system is finely tuned to recognize and respond to a wide range of threats, from viruses and bacteria to allergens and injury. This complex sensing relies on communication between diverse cell types, including sensory neurons and immune cells, to ensure responses are tailored to the specific challenge. In this Front Row lecture, Assistant Professor Alejandra Mendoza explored how neuro-immune cellular circuits regulate inflammation, pain, and immunity. By bridging neuroscience and immunology, her research is revealing how our bodies interpret signals from the environment to guide immune decisions, from fighting infections to controlling tumor growth and chronic inflammatory diseases.

Mendoza, who was honored with this year’s Outstanding Mentor Award, is focused on uncovering how our immune and nervous systems decide whether to attack or tolerate different stimuli. Specifically, she wants to know how dynamic cell types interact to maintain this balance between defending against harmful threats and permitting harmless ones. But she’s equally committed to supporting the next generation of scientists—and encouraging them to ask the bigger picture questions that drive the field forward.

The National Institutes for Health’s (NIH) HEAL Initiative has awarded Alejandra Mendoza, PhD, assistant professor of Immunology and Microbiology, more than $1.6 million as part of a DP2 grant designed to support early-stage investigators with highly innovative and impactful research.

You can choose to enable or disable some or all of these cookies but disabling some of them may affect your browsing experience.

===== LAB: David Millar, PhD =====
Biophysical Chemistry The focus of our research is on the dynamic structural changes that occur during cellular rearrangements of DNA and during ribozyme catalysis. One project is aimed at understanding the proofreading process that underlies the high DNA replication fidelity of DNA polymerases. Using time-resolved and single-molecule fluorescence methods, in conjunction with site-directed mutagenesis procedures, we are elucidating the molecular mechanisms that control the movement of a DNA substrate between the polymerization site of the enzyme and a separate 3'-5' exonuclease site used in proofreading. We use similar methods to monitor large-scale conformational changes that occur during the catalytic cycle of the hairpin ribozyme, a small endonucleolytic RNA that serves as a model for much larger catalytic RNA molecules. By means of fluorescence resonance energy transfer (FRET) between appropriately placed fluorescent probes, we follow the docking of the substrate-binding and catalytic domains of the ribozyme in real time and identify nucleotides that stabilize the catalytically active docked conformation. Single-molecule FRET methods are also being applied to Holliday junctions, four-stranded DNA structures that are formed during the course of genetic recombination and related DNA repair events.

Editorial Board, Biophysical Journal . Elected member, Council of the Biophysical Society. ? Member, Macromolecular Structure and Function C study section, NIH.

1976 Professor Kernot Prize in Chemistry, University of Melbourne 1981 Herbert Newby McCoy Award for Graduate Research, CalTech 1983 Fullbright Fellowship, Fullbright 1987 Queen Elizabeth II Fellowship

You can choose to enable or disable some or all of these cookies but disabling some of them may affect your browsing experience.

===== LAB: Shannon Miller, PhD =====
Genome editing holds promise as a one-time cure for genetic disease, but issues with toxicity, types of DNA manipulations, and biomolecule delivery limit therapeutic application. The Miller Lab develops and applies technologies for the in vivo use of gene editing tools for the safe and effective study and treatment of genetic disease. We tackle problems spanning biology and chemistry, with specific emphasis on protein engineering, directed evolution, viral and non-viral delivery, and genome editing. Our research is currently focusing on three major areas: (1) the development of novel AAV vectors for improved in vivo use and industrial production, (2) the development of a novel method for large DNA manipulations, and (3) improving in vivo CRISPR therapeutics using fully chemically modified sgRNAs.

miller, shannon m.; liu, david r.; weiss, mitchell j.; tsai, shengdar q.; pruett-miller, shondra m.; kalfa, theodosia a.; tisdale, john f.; mccaffrey, anton p.; koblan, luke w.; wang, tina; zhao, kevin t.; richter, michelle; henderson, jordana m.; sharma, akshay; lechauve, christophe; thaman, elizabeth; podracky, christopher j.; jang, yoonjeong; everette, kelcee a.; mayberry, kalin; yao, yu; porter, shaina n.; tillman, heather; li, yichao; lazzarotto, cicera r.; mayuranathan, thiyagaraj; woodard, kaitly j.; yen, jonathan; newby, gregory a. Base editing of haematopoietic stem cells rescues sickle cell disease in mice. Nature 2021 .

miller, shannon m.; liu, david r.; wang, tina Phage-assisted continuous and non-continuous evolution. Nature Protocols 2020 .

miller, shannon m.; liu, david r.; rees, holly a.; newby, gregory a.; matuszek, zaneta; huang, tony p.; shen, max w.; arbab, mandana; randolph, peyton b.; wang, tina Continuous evolution of SpCas9 variants compatible with non-G PAMs. Nature Biotechnology 2020 .

miller, shannon m.; liu, david r.; savage, david f.; fellmann, christof; oakes, benjamin l.; gaudelli, nicole m.; zhao, kevin t.; huang, tony p. Circularly permuted and PAM-modified Cas9 variants broaden the targeting scope of base editors. Nature Biotechnology 2019 .

miller, shannon m.; hennighausen, lothar; liu, chengyu; liu, david r.; smith, harold c.; willi, michaela; lee, hye k. Simultaneous targeting of linked loci in mouse embryos using base editing. Scientific Reports 2019 .

The Baxter Foundation annually support early-career researchers whose work in science and technology holds promise for improving patient care.

News Collaboration awards enable scientists to design new medicines, more precisely edit DNA and fight drug-resistant bacteria

Fellows Shannon Miller and Megan Ken have both received NIH Director’s Awards from the NIH Common Fund’s High-Risk, High-Reward Research program.

Thanks to revolutionary technologies like CRISPR, we’re now living in an age where it’s becoming possible to rewrite the very building blocks of life itself—our DNA. We sit down with Scripps Research Fellow and CRISPR expert Shannon Miller, PhD, to discover how these gene editing technologies are poised to reverse a range of diseases. Listen in as we explore Shannon’s unique journey into science—beginning not with a single eureka moment, but instead with a passion for creativity and discovery.

Chemical biologist Shannon Miller develops innovative tools to address the biggest questions in the field of genetic engineering.

You can choose to enable or disable some or all of these cookies but disabling some of them may affect your browsing experience.

===== LAB: Laurent Mosnier, PhD =====
von Drygalski, Annette; Bhat, V.; Gale, A. J.; Averell, P. M.; Cramer, T. J.; Elias, Darlene J.; Griffin, John H.; Mosnier, Laurent O. An engineered factor Va prevents bleeding induced by direct-acting oral anticoagulants by different mechanisms. Blood Advances 2020 , 4, 3716-3727.

You can choose to enable or disable some or all of these cookies but disabling some of them may affect your browsing experience.

===== LAB: Marco Mravic, PhD =====
Mravic lab uses protein design and integrative computational approaches to challenge our understanding of biomolecular structure, function, and physical chemistry - mainly within the cellular membrane environment. The three focus areas of our group are (1) Designing of small synthetic membrane proteins as simple model systems to test fundamental biophysical questions governing molecular structure and function. (2) De novo design and high-throughput engineering of custom chemical biology tools targeting membrane proteins directly at their lipid-embedded regions to probe molecular mechanism and therapeutic opportunities. (3) Molecular modeling and dynamics simulations that integrate diverse experimental data to better understand critical molecular events at cellular membranes Our lab's mission is to take an engineering approach (with new tool molecules or custom model systems) to investigating important biophysical principles underlying protein structure and activity in lipid as well as molecular determinants of disease. Our protein design efforts aim to engineer and study simplified model systems or novel chemical tools that allow us to proactively hypothesize, test, and establish chemical 'rules' for structure and function within the distinct environment of cellular membranes. These rules emerge through integrating cellular and biophysical experiments with bioinformatics, machine learning, all-atom simulations, and theoretical energy calculations. The lab's experimental expertise to interrogate membrane protein structure and function are highly multi-disciplinary, ranging from total protein chemical synthesis, structural biology (X-ray, NMR, cryo-EM), cell-based assays, and in vitro biophysics.

B.S. (Chemical Engineering), University of California, Los Angeles, 2014 Ph.D. (Molecular Biophysics), University of California, San Francisco, 2020

Minority Access to Research Careers (MARC) U*Star Trainee, 2012-14, UCLA Howard Hughes Medical Institute (HHMI) Gilliam Fellow, 2017-20, UCSF

The novel computer method to encode synthetic protein sequences within cell lipid environments offers insights into how membrane proteins fold and function, critical to understanding disease.

Scripps Research scientists used computer modeling to illustrate how antibodies use fatty molecules known as lipids to recognize the HIV virus.

Customized-design approach could streamline the design of novel proteins targeting the hard-to-access cell membrane region.

You can choose to enable or disable some or all of these cookies but disabling some of them may affect your browsing experience.

===== LAB: Arthur Olson, PhD =====
Biomolecular Interactions The principal objectives of this laboratory are to develop and apply computational and computer visualization techniques in the study of biomolecular interactions. The growing database of three-dimensional protein and nucleic acid structures highlights the need for new methods of analyzing and predicting molecular interactions and environments. Our focus is on protein-substrate interactions in drug design, protein-protein recognition and binding in oligomer formation, and the modeling of cellular environments at the molecular scale. We have developed a number of computational techniques for visualizing and analyzing protein structure and properties. We have recently developed new computational methods for constructing mesoscale models of cellular environments that integrate information from a variety of experimental methods and scales. We have also been involved with the development of novel visualization software that enables the exploration of complex molecular cell models containing millions of individual biomolecules. Other visualization research in the lab involves the use of 3D printing and augmented reality technology to create new ways to interact with the molecular world, for both research and education. We continue the development of techniques to predict protein interactions. Our AutoDock and AutoDock Vina codes use efficient global and local search procedures to dock flexible substrates into protein active sites. These codes are distributed worldwide to 10's of thousands of users. We are expanding these techniques to the design of new inhibitors and chemical probes, with a special focus on anti-HIV therapeutics and the evolution of drug resistance. Our FightAIDS@Home Internet distributed project, hosted by IBM, runs on over 2 million computers around the world.

1964 Phi Beta Kappa National Honor Society, Michigan Regents Scholar 1964 Phi Lambda Upsilon Chemical Honor Society, Michigan Regents Scholar 1968 B.S. in Chemistry with Highest Honors, University of Michigan, Ann Arbor 1976 Damon Runyon-Walter Winchell Cancer Fund Postdoctoral Fellowship Award 1978 National Institutes of Health Postdoctoral Fellowship Award 1985 Recipient of the George M. and Thelma B. Anderson Research Endowment 1999 Computer Graphics Pioneer for molecular visualizations and interviewed in the film "The Story of Computer Graphics" 2006 Honor by Resolution of the California State Legislature for FightAIDS@Home, TSRI (IBM) 2007 Distinguished Fellowship, Institute of Advanced Studies, Durham Universtiy, UK

Trott, O.; Olson, Arthur J. AutoDock Vina: improving the speed and accuracy of docking with a new scoring function, efficient optimization, and multithreading. Journal of Computational Chemistry 2010 , 31, 455-461.

Today, cutting-edge microscopy and visualization technologies let scientists “see” biological details ranging from the inner workings of viruses to the architecture of protein assemblies. By drawing on the power of computational biology and collaborating across scientific disciplines, researchers are gaining unprecedented insights into the world—as well as what makes us human—like never before.

You can choose to enable or disable some or all of these cookies but disabling some of them may affect your browsing experience.

===== LAB: Donghyun Raphael Park, PhD =====
To achieve infection and survival, various pathogens use complex multiprotein nanomachines to inject bacterial substrates into target cells and the extracellular environment. These nanomachines play critical roles in host-pathogen interactions by modulating eukaryotic host cell functions. The Park lab laboratory aims to utilize cutting-edge cryo-electron tomography (cryo-ET) technologies to define how bacterial nanomachines assemble to orchestrate substrate secretion and, thus, pathogenicity in the native environment.

Contact Donghyun Raphael Park, PhD Email (858) 784-9079 Joint Appointments Department of Immunology and Microbiology Graduate Program Member of the Graduate Program faculty.

New findings from Scripps Research show that disabling a single bacterial protein can restore vancomycin’s power against resistant bacteria–and point to a new strategy for overcoming antibiotic resistance.

New insights from Scripps Research could advance phage therapies for the world’s deadliest bacteria—including drug-resistant strains.

News Scripps Research scientists discover a “Goldilocks” zone for DNA organization, opening new doors for drug development

A new study uncovers how DNA, magnesium and polyphosphate form a balance that’s just right—which could lead to innovations in medicine and biotechnology.

You can choose to enable or disable some or all of these cookies but disabling some of them may affect your browsing experience.

===== END batch 4/8 =====
